#summary User Manual
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Contents =

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= About =

*S60 HTML Editor* is a simple text editor for _Symbian S60_ devices designed for editing HTML files. The major feature of the editor is fast and easy inserting HTML tags and entities.

The editor is written in *Python* programming language.

This manual describes version 0.3 of the editor.

Copyright (C) Dmitri Brechalov, 2008

= Requirements And Installation =

You *must* have [http://opensource.nokia.com/projects/pythonfors60/ Python for S60] installed on your device first.

You *must* have [http://code.google.com/p/appuifw2/ appuifw2] extension module installed on your device as well.

Currently, the program is deployed as a single Python script. You should download the latest release and put the file {{{s60htmled.py}}} to the folder {{{!:Python}}} on your device.

Then start Python interpreter, press left softkey for the menu and select *Run script*. Select the scripts and press *OK*.

= Hot Keys =

The editor uses *Call* key as a functional key. Press:
   * *Call + Left key* to go to the  beginning of line;
   * *Call + Right key* to go to the end of line;
   * *Call + Up key* to page up;
   * *Call + Down* key to page down;
   * *Call + Select key* to open the quick move menu.

To insert any HTML tag press *Right softley*. Select a tag from tag menu or press *Custom...* and type your own.

= Main Menu =

Press *Options* to open the main menu.
   * *Insert tag* - Open tags menu. You can quickly insert any tag you want. See below for detail.
   * *Insert entity* - Open entities menu. You can quickly insert the most often HTML entities.
   * *Search* - Open find and replace menu:
     * *Find* - Find the first occurence of entered text. Search starts from current position of cursor.
     * *Find next* - Find the next occurence of the same text.
     * *Replace* - Find and replace the first occurence of the text with another text string.
   * *File* - File operations:
     * *Save* - Save the file. For new files asks for the file name and path.
     * *Save as* - Save the text in another file. Asks for the name and the path.
     * *Open* - Load file. The current text will be replaced with contents of selected file.
     * *New* - Drop all text and clear the editor.
     * *New from template* - You can select simple HTML and HTML 4.0 transitional templates for the new file.
   * *Help* - Short help.
     * *Help* - Display short help on the major functions of the editor.
     * *About* - Show copyright info.
   * *Exit* - Close the editor and return to OS.

= HTML Tag Insertion =

To insert an HTML tag press *Right softke* (labeled *Tag*), select a tag and press *OK*. To select a tag you can simply scroll the list, or start typing to quickly find the necessary tag.

Also, you can use *Custom...* option - just type the tag you need and press *OK*.

The editor has a trivial control of opened tags for many tags. When you select the same tag next time, the editor will insert appropriate closing tag. For example, you want to insert a link into your text. You have selected *a href* from the menu for the first time, and you have recieved a string `<a href="">|` in your text. Then you have typed an URL and a label text. Now you have the following text: `<a href="http://code.google.com/">Google Code|` (Vertical line marks the cursor position). Now, to enter a closing tag, select *a href* once more and you will get: `<a href="http://code.google.com/">Google Code</a>|`. That's all!

= Screenshots =

|| http://s60htmled.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Screenshots/MainWindow.jpg || http://s60htmled.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Screenshots/MainMenu.jpg || http://s60htmled.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Screenshots/FileBrowser.jpg ||
|| Main Window || Main Menu || File Browser ||
|| http://s60htmled.googlecode.com/svn-history/r13/trunk/Screenshots/QuickMoveMenu.jpg || http://s60htmled.googlecode.com/svn-history/r13/trunk/Screenshots/TagMenu.jpg || ||
|| Quick Move Menu || Tag Selection Menu || ||